
A Library of High Resolution Infrared Stellar Spectra:  Digital spectra
are presented for a variety of cool stars in the 2.02-2.42 micron
region.  The spectra have been corrected for telluric absorption and
are at a resolution >45000.  The data are from Wallace and Hinkle
1996 ApJS 107 312.

The file "K_band_high_res.tar.gz" contains the full library contents.


------ text of file readme.doc -------

This directory contains material associated with the paper
"High-Resolution Spectra of Ordinary Cool Stars in the K Band" by L.
Wallace and K. Hinkle, which has been accepted for publication in ApJS.
The user is referred to the paper for complete details.

        The spectral data files are in subdirectories named for the
abbreviation of the object with the form xxxxx/nnnn.dat, where xxxxx is the
abbreviation for the object name and nnnn.dat is the lead frequency for one 
of the panels of the atlas plots.  Thus the file gldra/4375.dat has the 
spectrum of greek l (lambda) Dra beginning at 4375 cm-1 and extending to 
4400 cm-1, with a small overlap at each end.  The full list of abbreviations, 
the object names and a summary description of the file contents follows:

     Abbreviation	 Object			Contents

	61cyg		61 Cyg B	one spectrum & transmission
	61uma		61 UMa		one specrtum & transmission
	gaboo		alpha Boo	two spectra
	gaher		alpha Her	two spectra
	gaori		alpha Ori	two spectra
	gasge		alpha Sge	one spectrum & transmission
	gccyg		chi Cyg		one spectrum
	ggcyg		gamma Cyg	one spectrum & transmission
	gl411		Gleise 411	one spectrum & transmission
	gldra		lambda Dra	one spectrum
	gocet		omicron Cet	one spectrum
	gzcep		zeta Cep	one spectrum & transmission
	rxboo		RX Boo		one spectrum & transmission
	sceph		S Cep		one spectrum
	solar		Sun		one spectrum
	sspot		Sunspot		one spectrum
	txpsc		TX Psc		one spectrum

	Each spectral data file has the frequency scale as the first column,
and then one or two additional columns for one or two spectra or one spectrum
and the atmospheric transmission function.  The first entry in each spectrum
column is an approximate continuum level and the second is the Doppler shift 
in cm-1 needed to correct the spectrum to a laboratory frequency scale.  For 
the non-solar spectra, the next 1551 entries give the spectrum (derived from 
the sum of the forward and reverse scans) and the next 1551 entries give the
difference of the forward and backward scans as a measure of the noise in the
spectrum.

	A separate file, testplot, will produce a simple sample plot of
the spectra.

